---
title: "Getting the GCP Professional Data Engineer Certification" 
date: 2025-02-10
---
# Becoming a certified GCP Data Engineer
I have been working in [Metsystem,](https://metsystem.dk) a research company based in CPH, for a year now so I wanted to validate my skills in GCP. Therefore, last January I decided to take a step forward in my career and faced P**rofessional Data Engineer exam**.

## My background and history with cloud
If you have dived into my blog before you may have seen that I am Biomedical Engineer by training. After finishing my degree, I decided to take an MSc in Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence in DTU, Denmark. 
My coding and maths skills were sharped at this point but I had no idea of Cloud Computing. It was not until I took the [MLOps Course](https://skaftenicki.github.io/dtu_mlops/) that I decided to dive more in Cloud Computing. 

It was not a coincidence that Metsystem hired me by the time I finished MLOps course. By that time, Mestystem had no one to provide Cloud Solutions for them therefore, I needed to learn everything by myself plus providing **cost-effective** and **scalable** solutions for them. I will not lie, it was not an easy ride, but I enjoyed a lot from the very first day.

## Resources that I used
I dived into the internet looking for different books, courses or blogs to learn more about GCP. I was overwhelmed with the vast amount of resources available on the internet. I decided to take this course:
- [GCP Study Hub.](https://www.gcpstudyhub.com) 
I would recommend this course 100%. Ben, the course instructor, explains all the topics in a such an easy way that you get to understand every service. He also answers questions by email in a pretty impressive short period of time.

I used more resources such as: 
- GCP Data Engineer documentation
- Google Cloud Skills Boost 

I would recommend the Professional Data Engineer for someone that is experiecned in managing data pipelines. No coding experience is needed but It will help you a lot at the end of the day. Nevertheless, the exam can be passed without prior technical experience.
## Insights & Conclusion
To be honest, the exam is not easy, nor impossible. I spent 2 weeks for studying all the course. First week, I studied 3 hours a day. Second week, I was afraid of not passing it and I studied almost 7h a day. 
In the course mentioned before, there are mock/practice exams that indeed represents the real exam. I would suggest to aim for minimum of 85% in all the practice exams. Once you reach that point, you are more than ready to pass the eaxm. 

You get to learn a lot of how to manage correctly the pipelines and how the actual industry works.

Overall, I really enjoyed the studying for the exam even though it was difficult and it requires a lot of time. I did with the purpose of learning more about cloud computing, provide better solutions to my current company and to boos my career.

Feel free to reach me out!

Best, 

F
